INTRODUCTION TO REST 

REpresentational state transfer, is an architecture for developing web services,
it enables communication between a client and server using HTTP protocols 
stateless messaging is a loosely coupled connection between a client and server, where each message is self-contained. 
this connection enables the client and server to communicate without first establishing a communication channel and without managing the state between systems 

Key features 
- client/server model: they are independent from each other, enabling portability and scalability 
- stateless communication: each request is independent 
- uniform interface:  architecture is simplified through uniform standards 

COMPONENTS
A REST message consists of the following four components 
1. endpoint : is a URL that shows where and how to find the  resource on the internet 
2. HTTP method: is the action performed by the resource 
	POST 
	GET
	PATCH 
	DELETE
3. Headers: is a collection of fields and their associated values, it provides information about the message to the receiver.
 we can think of it as metadata about the message 
 it contains authentication information that indicates that the message is legitimate 
4. Body: the request in json format 

SECURE COMMUNICATION REQUIREMENTS 
to ensure secure communications you must provide the following security measures :
- sender authentication: a receiver needs to know that the message came from a trusted entity 
- message encryption: prevent man in the middle attacks by encrypting before transmission and decryption once received 

Secure communication options 
you can choose to secure your communications using one of the two methods:
1. JSON web token - these are digitally signed JSON objects
2. HTTP Signature - 


REST setup workflow 
below are the steps to enable REST requests:
1. choose JSON web token or HTTP Signature message security 
2. sign up for a sandbox account 
3. obtaining security keys: HTTP Signature message security uses a key pair, JWT message security uses a p12 certificate 
4. configure messaging 


Signing up for a sandbox account
go through the whole process of creating an account 
form this account you will be able to create your security certificates and test your implementations 

OBTAINING A P12 certificate 
a p12 and its private key are used with JSON web token message security 

creating a p12 file 
you can continue with this is you are using JSON web tokens to secure communication 
1. payment configuration -> key management 
2. click generate key 
3. under REST APIs select REST - certificate and click generate key 
4. download key 
6. .p12 file is downloaded to your desktop 





